- Docker Containers are attached to virtual networks every time you create or start them. Some of these networks are created by default, others must be specifically identified. To create a container attached to a specific network, you can run:
```shell
docker run --network my-custom-network rundeck/rundeck
```
- This will create a container from the specified image and attach it to an existing network with the name `my-custom-network`

### Managing networks
[Docker Network documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/network/)
- To see all existing networks:
```shell
docker network ls
```
- To create a network for containers to connect to:
```shell
docker network create [OPTIONS] my-custom-network
```
- There are many options available during network creation, some of which are requed (like `--driver`). Be sure to check the documentation link above to set it up properly.
- To disconnect an existing container from its network (remember, all containers will be connected to some default network at creation if not otherwise specified):
```shell
docker network disconnect some-network some-container
```
- To connect an existing container to a network:
```shell
docker network connect some-network some-container
```

### Network Types
[Network Driver documentation](https://docs.docker.com/network/#network-drivers)
- There are 5 types of virtual networks that can be setup for docker containers.
	1. Null
	2. Host
	3. Bridge
	4. MacVLAN
	5. IPVLAN

### The Null Network
- The null network is created by default when you install Docker. The default null network is named `none`. This network is meant for container isolation, and prevents any sort of network access to & from the container.
### The Host Network
- The host network does not get its own ip address or mac address, it shares the host computer's network, as if the software was installed locally. The default host network is named `host`. This can be convenient as long as you don't need ports exposed, or you keep careful control over the ports in the container vs. ports already in use on the host.
	- Note: The "software installed locally" analogy should only be thought of for networking purposes. Binaries are still inside the container, and therefore unavailable directly to the host computer. i.e. you could install a node server on the host network and it can serve a web site from localhost:8080 without any port or network configuration, however, the host cannot run any node commands without first connecting to the container.
### The Bridge Network
- The Bridge network allows the container to communicate outside the host, but to communicate from the host to the container, ports will need to be exposed from the container. The default bridge network is named `bridge`.
	- Note that the default bridge network does not provide container name resolution. ContainerA on `bridge` cannot communicate with ContainerB, also on `bridge`, except via ip address.
- If you create your own bridge network, however, it will provide name resolution, so in the previous example, if both containers were on a custom bridge, they could inter-communicate using the container names alone. This is a common setup for using management software to control multiple containers on the same host as the management software is running.
### The MacVLAN Network
- The MacVLAN network attaches each container directly to the host's local network as separate physical devices, each with a different MAC address. All networking operations will flow through the host's network hardware infrastructure. Note that most networks do not support the connection of multiple physical devices to the same cable. To allow this, you will need to turn on "Promiscuous Mode" for the ports involved. At minimum, the host's network interface